---
layout: post
title: "021: Arun Agrawal, <em>Environmentality: Technologies of Government and the Making of Subjects</em> (2005), Introduction"
date: 2020-10-04
---
This book investigates environmental politics in India (specifically Kumaon Himalaya), drawing on theories and insights from Foucault's notion of power and subjectivity, power/knowledge, governmentality, and bioplitics. An emphasis is given to the making of environmental subject positions resulted from involvement of different agencies in struggles over resources and in relation to new institutions and changing calculations of self-interest and notions of the self. Politics--institutions--identities: these three aspects, according to Agrawal, are linked together. Environmentality, the term used as the title, is a combination environment and Foucauldian governmentality, which meant to show the process of governmentalization of the environment. While studies of governmentalization boomed, Agrawal points out that his originality lies in how government shape subjects and how one is to explain variations in transformations of subjects.
<br/><br/>There are some points worth highlighting in the introduction. Firstly, new procedures for "surveying, demarcating, consolidating, protecting, planting, managing, harvesting, and marketing forests" are mobilized especially during the twentieth century, as the result of the governmentalization of the environment. Secondly, villagers commited to do illegal acts, such as by burning forests, as their weapons to negotiate the status of environment. Thirdly, the decentralization of environmental regulation to the locality are mobilized through three different strategies: 1. changes of the relations of localities to central governments; 2. Identifiable loci of power, decision making, and representation redefine the interaction between decision makers and common residents in communities; 3. the making of environmental subjects, those for whom the environment constitutes a critical domain of thought and action.
