---
layout: post
title: "002: László Székely, <em>Tropic Fever: The Adventures of a Planter in Sumatra</em> (1937)"
date: 2020-09-15
---
Cerita otobiografis mengenai perjalanan seorang pria Hungaria yang mengadu nasib ke Sumatra. Ia bermigrasi sehabis membaca deskripsi perkebunan Sumatra yang tertulis di kartu pos milik seorang temannya. Kartu pos itu dikirim oleh temannya teman itu yang tinggal di Sumatra. Daya tarik bekerja di perkebunan Sumatra sebagai orang kulit putih: upah 200 guilders per bulan, tempat tinggal gratis, pelayan, bungalow, fasilitas medis, obat-obatan dan pengiriman pos gratis. Namun, setelah memutuskan untuk menjadi planter di sana, ia menyaksikan bagaimana perkebunan mengeksploitasi pekerja non kulit putih, serupa dengan praktik perbudakan. 
<br/> <br/> Beberapa deskripsi yang tajam dalam menangkap realita perkebunan: 
<br/> <br/> "Nowhere a village, or even a house. Not even a coco palm. Only forest and swamp..." "Suddenly, as if marked out with a ruler, a huge clearing. Ditches dug in a straight line, paths, two metre high tobacco plants in endless straight rows. As far as the eye could reach, there swayed a lightgreen sea of leaves. Everything one saw was carefully tended, almost exaggeratedly ordered." (29)
<br/> <br/> "The first thing I learned in Sumatra was that there are two kinds of people in the world: white and coloured. The white man is the master, master and ruler in the strictest sense of the word. His very language announces it. He does not ask, he commands."(45)
<br/> <br/> "Men died like flies in autumn. The forest exhaled germs of disease. It breathed upon the intruders and, poisoned by its breath, the coolies died in shoals. The fit ones cleared away the dead and continued the life-and-death struggle." (62)
