---
layout: post
title: "Mystery Experiment's 1st Anniversary"
date: 2022-02-12
---
Exactly one year has passed since I received $10,000 from the Ted Foundation. It’s not because I won something, but solely because I was selected to [participate in a mysterious experiment](https://twitter.com/annabellewenas/status/1365439729957621761?s=20&t=lx0TZFXQXpObiPHTiC0SRg). I was asked to spend $10,000 in the span of 6 months for anything other than investment and illegal purchases. In addition to that, I only need to tweet about my spending every week, fill in a well-being survey and submit a spending report every month. 

The story started a little bit earlier in November 2020, when I randomly opted-in a survey for a mysterious social experiment tweeted by Chris Anderson. No mention of $10,000 anywhere on the tweet or survey, I just like to casually participate in online surveys to support research pursuits -- they are everywhere in the twittersphere.  

$10,000 is a lot for an average person living in Jakarta. To give some illustration, $10,000 is around IDR 140 mio which is 28x of my first salary as a data analyst! Moreover, 2021 was the year of many milestones for me. When I received the $10,000 transfer to my PayPal account, I was in the middle of planning a wedding, buying a car, and also planning to build a house.

Nevertheless, It didn’t feel right to spend $10,000 entirely for myself, I did almost nothing to earn it. That’s why I decided to allocate 30% for charities, and 70% for my personal needs. It wasn’t enough to cover all the big expenses I planned in 2021, but just enough to cover my car’s down payment.

$10,000 was indeed a booster for muggles like me: It didn’t alleviate all of my financial anxieties, but it allowed my partner and I to breathe for some time. I am very much grateful. 

Skip to the moment when I’m writing this rambling post. Just read a tweet about rising Omicron cases in Indonesia ([+55k daily new cases!](https://twitter.com/nuicemedia/status/1492454295446634496?s=20&t=lx0TZFXQXpObiPHTiC0SRg)). Yet, the sheer nostalgia of this generous experiment reminded me of a merry go round called life.
